---
layout: post
title: "Trials and Tribulations of MicroRNA Therapeutics"
date: 2025-01-01T12:34:56Z
authors: false
description: false
thumbnail: "/assets/images/gen/literature/entry5.webp"
image: "/assets/images/gen/literature/entry5.webp"
---
# Link to article
[Click to Access](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms25031469){: .btn}

# Citation
Seyhan, A. A. (2024). Trials and Tribulations of MicroRNA Therapeutics. International Journal of Molecular Sciences, 25(3), 1469. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms25031469 

# Abstract
 > The discovery of the link between microRNAs (miRNAs) and a myriad of human diseases, particularly various cancer types, has generated significant interest in exploring their potential as a novel class of drugs. This has led to substantial investments in interdisciplinary research fields such as biology, chemistry, and medical science for the development of miRNA-based therapies. Furthermore, the recent global success of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines against the COVID-19 pandemic has further revitalized interest in RNA-based immunotherapies, including miRNA-based approaches to cancer treatment. Consequently, RNA therapeutics have emerged as highly adaptable and modular options for cancer therapy. Moreover, advancements in RNA chemistry and delivery methods have been pivotal in shaping the landscape of RNA-based immunotherapy, including miRNA-based approaches. Consequently, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry has witnessed a resurgence of interest in incorporating RNA-based immunotherapies and miRNA therapeutics into their development programs. Despite substantial progress in preclinical research, the field of miRNA-based therapeutics remains in its early stages, with only a few progressing to clinical development, none reaching phase III clinical trials or being approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and several facing termination due to toxicity issues. These setbacks highlight existing challenges that must be addressed for the broad clinical application of miRNA-based therapeutics. Key challenges include establishing miRNA sensitivity, specificity, and selectivity towards their intended targets, mitigating immunogenic reactions and off-target effects, developing enhanced methods for targeted delivery, and determining optimal dosing for therapeutic efficacy while minimizing side effects. Additionally, the limited understanding of the precise functions of miRNAs limits their clinical utilization. Moreover, for miRNAs to be viable for cancer treatment, they must be technically and economically feasible for the widespread adoption of RNA therapies. As a result, a thorough risk evaluation of miRNA therapeutics is crucial to minimize off-target effects, prevent overdosing, and address various other issues. Nevertheless, the therapeutic potential of miRNAs for various diseases is evident, and future investigations are essential to determine their applicability in clinical settings.